---
layout: post
title:  "Resume"
date:   2022-12-18 21:13:41 -0800
categories: jekyll update
---
# Alexander McColm
## Port Alberni, BC
## 250-899-2390 | mccolmalex@gmail.com
## Linkedin.com/in/awmc2000 | Github.com/awmc000

## SKILLS
Soft Skills: Effective oral and written communication, strong interpersonal skills as a learner and mentor, a detail-oriented, analytical mindset.
Technical Skills: Java and C++ programming, BASH scripting, Linux, software design, technical writing.

## EDUCATION
Vancouver Island University	Nanaimo, BC
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science	September 2021 - Present
GPA: 3.9 / 4.0; 
Honours: Highest Standing in Computer Science I and II, Dean’s Honour Roll
Relevant Courses: Computer Science, Software Engineering, Calculus, Co-Op Preparation

## PROJECTS
### Retail Management System Group Project	Nanaimo, BC
Project Manager, Test Lead	September 2022 - Present
Developed point of sale and staffing and inventory management interfaces, following a modified waterfall model of software development. (C++, C libraries, STL, CMake)
Selected experience from this project:
Built unit testing system with BASH scripting to ensure completeness and reliability of product features.
Wrote user requirements specification, logical and physical design, and testing plan.
Delivered a satisfactory product and received an A+ in the course.
### Data Structure Diagram Generator	Personal Project
Creator, Maintainer	May 2022 - Present
Reinforced learning about data structures and algorithms by implementing functionality for an end user to draw diagrams of arrays, binary trees, and series of diagrams to demonstrate the use of Bubble Sort on an array. (Java, Graphics2D)
Arduino Number Guessing Game	Personal Project
Creator, Maintainer	August 2022 - Present
Designed and completed a simple number guessing game using the Arduino Uno system, using serial communication for tests and debugging, I2C to control the display, and modelling the game itself as a finite state machine.

## VOLUNTEERING & EMPLOYMENT EXPERIENCE
### British Columbia Federation of Students	Courtenay, BC
### Federation Relations Representative, Local 15	April 2022 – April 2023 Term (Ongoing)
Develop strategies and policies at regular Board of Directors and Committee of the Whole meetings.
Represent membership at Federation in discussions and by delivering quarterly reports.
Toys “R” Us Canada	Kelowna, BC
Team Member	October 2019 – May 2021
Assisted customers on the sales floor and took transactions at the register with a friendly demeanor.
Stocked and organized merchandise while maintaining a high standard of cleanliness.

